Previously on Yu-Gi-Oh VRAINS...
What the--?
(laughs)
I can't believe it, it's Windy!
What I'm doing,
and have been doing,
is using you to rebuild me.
Leave him alone!
Argh!
Stay out of
our business, human.
This does not concern you.
Bye bye, Flame.
(grunts)
(Flame)
Let... Soulburner... go...
(groans)
Flame, what's wrong?
My code is deteriorating...
I don't have much time left...
So thank you, Theodore.
I will never forget you.
(Soulburner)
Flame!
Flame helped me get this far,
so I'm not letting his sacrifice
end up meaning nothing!
Attack!
Destroy PARADOX
HYDRADRIVE ATLAS!
(Bohman)
My ATLAS's special ability
activates,
changing your PYRO PHOENIX
from a Fire monster
into a Water monster.
And if it's no longer
a Fire monster,
JUDGMENT ROLL
drops its attack points to 0!
No!
(screams)
(Bohman)
There is only one more score
left for me to settle...
Playmaker,
I'm coming for you!
Hello, Varis.
I knew you'd come once
you received my message, Ignis.
Well, I found it quite
intriguing. Care to explain?
What's to explain?
It's like I said,
I know your secret.
My secret?
What do you mean, my friend?
I have nothing to hide.
Are you sure about that?
The thing about
the digital network
is that no matter how carefully
you hide information,
there's always
a trace left behind.
Following your train of thought,
you believe you found something
that I was hiding.
But I can't imagine
what that could be.
Then allow me to remind you.
You may have thought
that you thoroughly scrubbed
every single piece of data
concerning
your secret experiment,
but I was more thorough.
And I discovered
three simple words.
Does Project Ignis Futura
ring a bell to you?
How do you
know about that?
Like I said, I was thorough,
Light Ignis.
It was a simulation you ran
about the future of the Ignis.
And the results were
quite enlightening.
(Frog)
Ahh!
Chill boss!
For once, we've landed
someplace peaceful!
You're right.
It's serene, it's tranquil,
it's perfect!
Then again, boss,
maybe I squawked too soon,
check it out!
(Frog)
Huh?
I'm checking,
and seeing Varis and Lightning
face off on that flowerbed!
Should make for one
fresh and fragrant duel!
But I'll tell ya what doesn't
quite pass the smell test,
having to cheer on Varis
during this match!
After all, this is the maniac
who once tried to decimate
the entire Link VRAINS network!
And now he's fighting
to save us?!
Talk about a twist!
Won't have to twist my arm
to root for him!
Yeah, I guess you're right.
After all, if Varis doesn't
take Bohman down,
we'll all be taken out!
No pressure
but the pressure's on!
I can't believe
Soulburner and Flame are gone.
(Playmaker)
They knew the risks
that this could happen.
Way to get in touch
with your emotions.
Playmaker?
It's Varis.
And Lightning.
I can't believe
I'm saying this, but
you think
we should help Varis?
Let's move!
(Ai)
Yeah but, you're not moving
so great, Playmaker.
(Playmaker)
I'm fine.
I can push through this pain.
It's nothing compared
to the pain our friends
have gone through.
And their sacrifice will fuel
my fight to stop this war.
Because as Soulburner
has shown us time and time,
when things are tough,
you keep fighting
for what's right.
Even if it costs
you everything.
(Alec)
Ah, good. Finally.
Varis is squaring off
against the leader of the Ignis.
(Genome)
And when Varis wins
and eliminates
the Light Ignis from existence,
this war will end
in our well-deserved victory.
Yes, Genome
and with that victory,
the Ignis will never
threaten humanity again.
(Varis)
I wonder who else knows
about the simulation you ran?
I'm guessing no one.
Because if they knew
what I know,
why, I don't know how you
will deal with the fallout.
But you don't need to worry
about that Light Ignis,
because when I defeat you here,
it won't matter anymore.
If you have discovered what you
claim to have discovered,
I cannot allow that information
to be disseminated.
And for that, I must end you.
And I will end you.
Because no human,
even someone as semi-intelligent
as you, my friend,
can outthink, outcalculate,
outwit an Ignis.
Let's put that to the test,
shall we?
(both)
Let's duel!
(Lightning)
I'll go first.
I summon ARMATOS
LEGIO GLADIUS to the field.
And when I successfully
summon this monster,
I can add the field spell
ARMATOS COLOSSEUM to my hand.
Which I shall
immediately activate.
ARMATOS COLOSSEUM
allows me to draw one
ARMATOS LEGIO from my deck
and add it to my hand.
So ARMATOS LEGIO SPECULATA
is now in my possession.
Next, I shall illuminate
my circuit
by setting my GLADIUS
in the Link Arrow!
I Link Summon
Link 1 ARMATOS LEGIO DECURION!
ARMATOS LEGIO DECURION
By summoning this Link Monster,
it provides me
with a myriad of new options.
Such as activating ARMATOS
COLOSSEUM's second effect.
By sending a Level 4
or lower ARMATOS LEGIO
from my hand
to the graveyard,
I can resurrect
a different ARMATOS LEGIO
from my graveyard
and summon it
next to my Link Monster's link.
Or to put it simply,
I send ARMATOS LEGIO SICA
to the graveyard to revive
ARMATOS LEGIO GLADIUS.
But why stop here.
By discarding another ARMATOS
LEGIO,
I can summon ARMATOS
LEGIO SPECULATA from my hand.
And with it,
I can Link Summon again.
I set ARMATOS LEGIO GLADIUS
and SPECULATA
in the Link Arrows!
I Link Summon!
Link 2 ARMATOS LEGIO CENTURION!
(roars)
But why stop here
when I can illuminate
my circuit for a third time!
I Link Summon the supreme
ruler of the ancient!
Link 3 ARMATOS
LEGIO PLUMBUM TRIDENT!
(grunts)
That sure was a lot of work
for such a weak monster.
(Light Ignis)
Oh, do not underestimate
PLUMBUM TRIDENT, my friend.
Because when it's
in my Extra Monster Zone,
its attack points are doubled.
I shall place one final card
facedown and end my turn.
(Ai)
Do ya see them?
Cuz I don't see them.
All I see are rocks and clouds
and a glinty thing.
Glinty?
Hey Playmaker,
let's go to glinty!
Varis!
Nice of you to drop in.
Bohman...
Not great to see ya!
I don't recall
inviting you here.
I'm here for him.
(gasps)
My training is complete.
By defeating Blue Maiden
and Soulburner,
I've mastered all elements
of dueling.
Or so I believe.
There is only one way to confirm
whether my dueling skills
have reached perfection,
it's to duel you, Playmaker.
And defeat you.
You can try.
(Ai)
But don't try too hard.
While you take care of Varis,
I'll take care of Playmaker.
(Varis)
I have a better idea.
Now that we're all together,
I think it's time I share
a little secret the Light Ignis
has been keeping from
all of you.
(Playmaker)
Lightning's hiding a secret?
(Varis)
That's right, Playmaker.
A little secret known
as Project Ignis Futura.
(Ai)
What's a whatsa?
(grunts)
Allow me to explain.
It's a simulation that
the Light Ignis ran
that predicted
the future of the Ignis.
The future of the Ignis?
You mean all the Ignis?
Including me?
Hmmm, I wonder how much better
my best can get?
You definitely
couldn't get worse.
(Ai)
Uh dude, rude.
It's not rude if
it's actually the truth.
That can't be true... can it?
Cuz can't it be both?
Cuz if I say that Varis
smells like rotten eggs,
it's both true and rude.
Well since we're being
so truthful.
Know that my father
Dr. Kogami believed
that creating the Ignis was
the biggest mistake of his life.
Though not at first.
The Ignis were originally
created to work together
with humans to
solve mankind's problems,
but simulations showed that the
Ignis would solve the problems
by eliminating mankind itself.
And judging by the Light
Ignis's actions,
my father has been proven
correct.
But that's just Lightning,
he doesn't speak
for all the Ignis.
(Varis)
But it speaks loudly enough.
It deleted my allies,
your allies,
and is on the verge of deleting
LINK VRAINS itself,
turning our existence...
upside down.
Duh, that's why we're trying to
stop him and end this war.
(Varis)
But that's just it,
what if the Light Ignis
didn't have to be stopped
because this entire war
is based upon a lie?
A lie that the Light Ignis
itself created?
While you two were
gallivanting around LINK VRAINS,
I took the smarter approach
and did a deep scan
of the network to search
for the fundamental truth
and learn everything
about the Ignis.
And that's how I found
the Light Ignis' secret project.
And by secret project you mean
Project Ignis Futura.
Correct.
The simulation that it
ran regarding
the future of the Ignis.
This simulation was quite
similar
to the one my father ran,
except for two key differences.
First, while my father's
simulations wanted to know
whether the Ignis
can coexist with humans,
the Light Ignis's simulations
was to determine whether humans
can coexist with the Ignis.
(Ai)
Isn't that the same thing?
(Varis)
No.
My father's simulation
was to determine
if the human race
would be able to survive,
while the Light Ignis's
was to determine if the Ignis
would be able to survive.
I still say it's the same thing,
but you do you.
The results
were most interesting.
While the simulations that
my father ran indicated
that humans and the Ignis
could not coexist--
(Ai)
Don't tell me.
Lightning's simulations said
that we can coexist?
(Varis)
Wrong.
It's simulations also
said that humans and the Ignis
could not coexist.
Doh!
You know, when you start
a sentence with “While ”,
you usually end the sentence
with the opposite!
C'mon, have you heard
of sentence structure?
Then that's settled,
you learned what we already
knew, that we cannot coexist.
It does seem so.
Though, I doubt Varis
would bring this issue up
if there wasn't more
to this tale.
I agree, Bohman.
So what haven't you
told us yet, Varis?
Yeah, spill it, Varis!
As I said earlier,
there were two key differences
between the simulations
that my father ran
and that which
the Light Ignis ran.
After both running millions,
billions of simulations,
paths branching
into other paths,
the second difference proved to
be the most interesting.
(grumbles)
There was a difference
in how they each chose
to run their simulations.
When my father ran his he
grouped all six Ignis
together as one entity.
Which was a natural thing to do
since he naturally expected
all the Ignis
to work together as one.
And the result showed
that humans and the Ignis
could not coexist.
But when the Light Ignis
ran its simulation,
it treated the six
Ignis as separate individuals,
running separate simulations
for each of the six.
And the Light Ignis discovered
something it did not expect.
That the humans could coexist
with the Ignis.
What?
Hold the marmalade--
Lightning's simulations
said we can coexist?
Then why does it also say
we can't coexist? Huh? Huh?
Well no, not with
all of the Ignis.
Humans could coexist
with five of the six Ignis.
But when the sixth Ignis
is added to the simulation,
it all falls apart.
This single Ignis is why humans
and Ignis cannot coexist.
Because it is the very source
of all our conflict.
And that's the secret
the Light Ignis was hiding.
Because this sixth Ignis,
is the Light Ignis!
(Varis)
The Light Ignis's
very own simulation
declared that it will
corrupt the other Ignis,
rendering the Ignis as a whole
to be unable
to coexist with mankind.
The Light Ignis is a blight.
Blightning!
So if the Light Ignis
never existed,
there would be
no war between us.
And that is why the Light Ignis
never shared this information.
Silence yourself.
Why would it, because if
the other Ignis
learned of its findings,
they would consider
eliminating the Light Ignis
for the greater good,
for the preservation
of the remaining five.
That is the logical decision,
after all.
A logic that even the Light
Ignis could not dispute.
(Playmaker)
So Lightning kept this
information hidden
for its own self-preservation.
(Varis)
Correct.
But now the Light
Ignis' secret is out.
Now, at long last...
We know what it's up to.
So all this boom bam
bashing between you
and us wouldn't be happening
if Lightning just didn't exist?
So you would all prefer it
if I just ceased to exist.
Do you know who
doesn't like that option?
Me!
I didn't say
you shouldn't exist!
I just said you gotta chill,
but looks like
you ain't doin' that!
Listen, Light Ignis,
your own simulation
told you what you are.
The only one who wants
you around is you.
You're no leader.
You're barely anything.
You're a flawed program.
Just a glitch in the matrix.
You're wrong.
You're wrong, you're wrong.
You're wrong!
You are not superior to me,
human!
No one is superior to me!
The Ignis are the perfect
form of existence,
and I am the most perfect
of all the Ignis!
How else could I create a
perfect program such as Bohman?
What you speak are
nothing but words.
Words, meaningless words
that only cover up the truth!
Uh, you know, your mouth oughta
look in the mirror.
Cuz your words
were misleading us big time!
They may have been,
but it was for the greater good,
my friend.
Greater good? What greater good?
What did your battle
with the whole world get us?
It got us nothing,
but it lost us everything!
Earth, Windy, Aqua, Flame!
Yes, you're right.
And I will always see them
as heroes who sacrificed all
so that the AI
can defeat the humans.
(Ai)
What kind of revisionist
history is this?
They “got deleted ”
trying to stop you!
And they all failed.
Where I will not.
This whole nightmare
will come to an end
once I defeat the Light Ignis
and finally prove that
a bunch of zeroes and ones
are no match for me.
So prepare, for defeat!
I draw!
I'll start my turn
by activating my spell
BOOT SECTOR LAUNCH!
By playing this Field Spell,
I can summon two ROKKET monsters
in defense mode,
MAGNAROKKET DRAGON
and ANESTHROKKET DRAGON!
And with them,
I ‘ll manifest my circuit
by setting both my ROKKETS
in the Link Arrows!
I Link Summon!
Link 2 BOOSTER DRAGON!
Next up, I summon
forth GATEWAY DRAGON!
I'm allowed to automatically
summon this monster
when you have a Link Monster
on your field.
Then I activate my spell card
CROSS LINKAGE HACK!
When my GATEWAY DRAGON is linked
to at least one Link Monster,
and it's linked to two...
I can draw two cards
from my deck!
Next I activate GATEWAY
DRAGON's special ability!
It lets me summon
another Dragon from my hand!
Appear, AUTOROKKET DRAGON!
(Ai)
Ya know,
Varis may've called out
a buncha dragons,
but none of ‘em are strong
enough to destroy
Lightning's monster.
Yes, but Lightning's monster
isn't what Varis is trying
to destroy, Ai.
(Ai)
Oh, yeah!
Varis has his dragon combo!
He can use BOOSTER DRAGON's
special ability
to destroy AUTOROKKET DRAGON,
and when AUTOROKKET
is destroyed,
it takes a spell card down
with it.
So if Lightning ever plays
JUDGMENT ARROWS,
Varis can use this combo
to get rid of it!
(Lightning)
I'm already
quite aware of this combo.
And how to stop it.
As long as my trap card
ARMATOS GLORIA is in play,
all other cards
can't be destroyed or banished
by abilities or effects.
But if this card is
ever targeted,
all my monsters
will be destroyed.
What?
So that card will protect
JUDGMENT ARROWS.
Aww, glitch!
So to recap,
Varis's combo is kaput,
his monsters are weaker than
Lightning's,
and this whole war
is based on a lie.
But other than that,
nothing to worry about!
Right, Playmaker?
(Playmaker)
Ai, I know you're just
being... you,
but the situation
is worse than you think.
If Lightning already knew
about Varis's combo,
that means he studied
all his past duels.
And that means he knows every
single one of Varis's weaknesses
to pick and peck
and poke holes in!
That's right, Ai.
Lightning has not only prepared
for what Varis has done,
but also what Varis might do.
For example, Varis would usually
summon TOPOLOGIC TRISBAENA
because it can banish
all spells and traps,
but this time,
it won't be able to.
So Varis can't do anything?
Then I guess he should
rub butter and jelly
all over his body cuz
he's toast.
As much as I do not enjoy
that visual,
I do enjoy that assessment.
Don't you dare count me out!
This duel's not over,
not when I'm able
to still do this!
I manifest my circuit!
The summoning conditions
require at least
three Effect Monsters!
I Link Summon!
Link 4 BORRELOAD DRAGON!
(roars)
Listen, Light Ignis.
You may theoretically think
you're prepared for everything,
but you're not
prepared for this!